[IMP] sales: fully updated currencies doc (#4534)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/sales/sales/products_prices/prices/currencies.rst

  applicable).
- :guilabel:`Active`: meaning this currency is `activated`, which means it can be added to a
  pricelist, or used as the :guilabel:`Main Currency` of the company, if desired (via
  :menuselection:`Accounting app --> Configuration --> Settings --> Currencies section`).

.. note::
   By default, all the currency options that are :guilabel:`Active` are at the top of the list.

.. tip::
   It's recommend that *at least* one pricelist is created per :guilabel:`Active` currency. See
   also: `/applications/sales/sales/products_prices/prices/pricing.html` to learn more about
   pricelist configuration.

To toggle these options on/off, click the toggle switch in that row for the corresponding column.
When `on` the color of the switch is green. When `off` the color of the switch is gray.

Currency detail form
--------------------

To edit any currency on the :guilabel:`Currencies` page, click the desired currency to reveal the
detail form for that specific currency, and proceed to make any necessary changes.

.. image:: currencies/currency-detail-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How a currency detail form looks in Odoo Accounting.

> On the currency detail form, there will be the appropriate Currency Code in the :guilabel:`Currency`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the currency detail form, the relevant Currency Code will appear in the :guilabel:`Currency`
```

field. Beneath that, the name for the currency is in the :guilabel:`Name` field.

> Then, toggle the currency's availabilty with the :guilabel:`Active` toggle - `on` is indicated with
> a green switch, and `off` is indicated with a gray switch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Indicate if the currency should be available in Odoo using the :guilabel:`Active` toggle switch.
```

On the right of the currency detail form, the appropriate :guilabel:`Currency Unit` (e.g. `Dollars`)
and :guilabel:`Currency Subunit` (e.g. `Cents`) can be found.

> Then, if the currency is meant to be used for eBay purposes, toggle the :guilabel:`Use on eBay` to
> the desired activation  - `on` is indicated with a green switch, and `off` is indicated with a gray
> switch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the currency is meant to be used for eBay purposes, toggle the :guilabel:`Use on eBay` switch to
the `on` position.
```

Next, under the :guilabel:`Rates` tab, the various conversion rates can be viewed, added, or
deleted. Each row shows the :guilabel:`Date` of that specific rate, the :guilabel:`Company` to which
it is connected, followed by the :guilabel:`Unit per...` and :guilabel:`...per Unit`.

.. note::
      The `...` in those last two columns represent the :guilabel:`Main Currency` abbreviation of
      the company. In this case, `USD` is in the place of `...` used in those last two columns
      (:guilabel:`Unit per...` and :guilabel:`...per Unit`) because it is the :guilabel:`Main

>       Currency` of the company.

Reviewer: See my other comment below for a better way to phrase this.

field accordingly as desired.

.. seealso::
   `/applications/sales/sales/products_prices/prices/pricing.html` to learn more about
   pricelist configuration.

Auto-conversion from public price
=================================

It should be noted that the public price seen on products is directly related to the company's set
:guilabel:`Main Currency`, which is configured by navigating to :menuselection:`Accounting app -->
Configuration --> Settings --> Currencies section --> Main Currency --> Currency drop-down menu`.

However, the sales price automatically updates if the pricelist is changed to one that has a
different currency than the company's :guilabel:`Main Currency`. The change in price is directly
related to the updated conversion rate for that currency.

Set product prices
==================

In order to have set product prices in place, in order to avoid any changes in currency rates, start
by navigating to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Products --> Products`.

From the :guilabel:`Products` page, select the desired product to modify. Or, create a new product
by clicking the :guilabel:`New` button.

> Then, from the product detail form, click the :guilabel:`Extra Prices` smart button, in the

Reviewer: Remove comma
```suggestion
Then, from the product detail form, click the :guilabel:`Extra Prices` smart button in the
```

      :align: center
      :alt: How the main currency feature appears on settings page in Odoo Accounting.

   Click the checkbox beside the :guilabel:`Automatic Currency Rates` feature, choose a designated
   bank to get the currency rates from in the :guilabel:`Service` field drop-down menu, and select
   an :guilabel:`Interval` of time for the updates to take place. Then determine when the date of
   the :guilabel:`Next Run` should be.

   To instantly update the currency rates, click the :guilabel:`🔁 (circular arrows)` icon, located
   to the right of the :guilabel:`Next Run` field.

   When all configurations are complete, be sure to :guilabel:`Save` all changes.

.. note::
   All payment methods **must** be in the same currency as the sales journal, or the company
   currency, if the company currency is not set. If it is not the same, a :guilabel:`Validation
   Error` message appears.

View, edit, and add currencies
==============================

To view, edit, and add currencies to the database, making them available on pricelists and on the
:guilabel:`Main Currency` drop-down menu, click the :guilabel:`Currencies` link, located beneath the

> :guilabel:`Currency` field on the *Accounting* app's :guilabel:`Settings` page.

Reviewer 2: Since the user is being directed to the Accounting app's settings page, we can use menuselection
```suggestion
:guilabel:`Currency` field on the :menuselection:`Accounting app --> Settings` page.
```

When the :guilabel:`Currencies` link is clicked, a separate :guilabel:`Currencies` page is revealed.

.. image:: currencies/main-currencies-page.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How the main currencies page appears in Odoo Accounting.

On this page, Odoo provides a master list of 167 global currencies. Each row shows the corresponding
:guilabel:`Currency`, :guilabel:`Symbol`, :guilabel:`Name`, date of the :guilabel:`Last Update`, and
:guilabel:`Current Rate` (compared to the default currency of the country in which the company is
based).

To the far right, there are two columns, which can be toggled on or off:

> - :guilabel:`Use on eBay`: this currency can be used with the connected eBay account (if
>    applicable).
> - :guilabel:`Active`: this currency is activated, which means it can be added to a pricelist, or
>    used as the main currency of the company, if desired (via :menuselection:`Accounting app -->
>    Configuration --> Settings --> Currencies section`).

Reviewer 2: Bullet alignment
```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Use on eBay`: this currency can be used with the connected eBay account (if
  applicable).
- :guilabel:`Active`: this currency is activated, which means it can be added to a pricelist, or
  used as the main currency of the company, if desired (via :menuselection:`Accounting app -->
  Configuration --> Settings --> Currencies section`).
```

==================
Foreign currencies
==================

With Odoo, pricelists can be used to manage prices in a number of foreign currencies. Specifically,

> Odoo has the ability to work with 167 total currencies. In order to use multiple currencies in Odoo

Reviewer 3: suggestion to use an explicit call-out here for this detail
```suggestion
Odoo has the ability to work with 167 total currencies. 

.. note::
   In order to use multiple currencies in Odoo
```

*Sales*, the *Accounting* application **must** be installed.

Settings
========

> Once the *Accounting* app is installed, foreign currencies can be viewed, edited, and added to the

Reviewer 3: - tense mismatch
- would condense here, the other two actions are implied (and seem out of order anw?)
```suggestion
Once the *Accounting* app has been installed, foreign currencies can be added to the
```

> database. To do that, navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting app --> Configuration --> Settings`,

Reviewer 3: Would just be mindful of singular/plural use for the demonstrative pronoun here, as it's currently written there's a mismatch (i.e. does *that* mean add, edit, or view in relation to the sentence before it? Or should it actually be *those*?). Imo it's not needed anw.
```suggestion
database. Navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting app --> Configuration --> Settings`,
```

scroll to the :guilabel:`Currencies` section, and locate the :guilabel:`Main Currency` setting.

.. image:: currencies/main-currency-setting-page.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How the main currency feature appears on settings page in Odoo Accounting.

Odoo automatically sets the main currency as the currency of the country the company is based in.

To change the main currency of the company, select the drop-down menu in the :guilabel:`Currency`

> field, and select the desired currency. Click :guilabel:`Save` to save all changes.

Reviewer 3: Nitpick: click save to save is redundant, no? 😜
```suggestion
field, select the desired currency, and be sure to :guilabel:`Save` the changes.
```

different currency than the company's main currency. The change in price is directly related to the
updated conversion rate for that currency.

Set product prices
==================

In order to have product prices set in place to avoid any changes in currency rates, start by
navigating to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Products --> Products`.

From the :guilabel:`Products` page, select the desired product to modify. Or, create a new product
by clicking the :guilabel:`New` button.

Then, from the product detail form, click the :guilabel:`Extra Prices` smart button, located in the
upper-left corner. Doing so reveals a separate :guilabel:`Price Rules` page, specific to that
particular product.

.. image:: currencies/price-rules-currencies.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How to set product prices based on foreign currency pricelists in Odoo Sales.

Click :guilabel:`New`, and select the desired pricelist from the drop-down menu in the
:guilabel:`Pricelist` column.

The :guilabel:`Applied On` field is auto-populated with the product, so proceed to enter in the
desired figures in the :guilabel:`Min. Quantity` and :guilabel:`Price` fields.

.. note::

>    The figure in the :guilabel:`Min. Qunatity` field means that the :guilabel:`Price` being set will

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   The figure in the :guilabel:`Min. Quantity` field means that the :guilabel:`Price` being set will
```

   **only** trigger if at least that amount of product is purchased.

If necessary, configure a :guilabel:`Start Date` and :guilabel:`End Date` for the set prices, as

> well. Leaving those columns blank ensures that the set price will remain valid.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
well. Leaving those columns blank ensures that the set price will remain valid regardless of the date of sale.
```

> Then, if working in a multi-company environment, designate to which company this price rule
> should be applied in the :guilabel:`Company` field. Leaving that blank ensures the price rule will
> be applied to all companies in the database.

Reviewer 2: Early line break
```suggestion
Then, if working in a multi-company environment, designate to which company this price rule should
be applied in the :guilabel:`Company` field. Leaving that blank ensures the price rule will be
applied to all companies in the database.
```

==================
Foreign currencies
==================

With Odoo, pricelists can be used to manage prices in a number of foreign currencies. Specifically,
Odoo has the ability to work with 167 total currencies. In order to use multiple currencies in Odoo
*Sales*, the *Accounting* application **must** be installed.

Settings
========

Once the *Accounting* app is installed, foreign currencies can be viewed, edited, and added to the
database. To do that, navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting app --> Configuration --> Settings`,
scroll to the :guilabel:`Currencies` section, and locate the :guilabel:`Main Currency` setting.

.. image:: currencies/main-currency-setting-page.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How the main currency feature appears on settings page in Odoo Accounting.

> Odoo automatically sets the :guilabel:`Main Currency` as the currency of the country the company is
> based in.

Reviewer 2: Arguable guilabel use– I think both work but Im leaning towards not needing it since it is being described in a general sense
```suggestion
Odoo automatically sets the main currency as the currency of the country the company is based in.
```

To change the main currency of the company, select the drop-down in the :guilabel:`Currency` field,
and select the desired currency. Click :guilabel:`Save` to save all changes.

.. tip::

>    To ensure currency rates are updated automatically, enable the :guilabel:`Automatic Currency
>    Rates` feature on the *Accounting* :guilabel:`Settings` page (:menuselection:`Accounting app -->
>    Configuration --> Settings --> Currencies section`).

Reviewer 2: The active instruction hasn't started yet, so this text is not present on the screen– no guilabels :)
```suggestion
   To ensure currency rates are updated automatically, enable the *automatic currency rates* feature
   on the *Accounting* settings page (:menuselection:`Accounting app --> Configuration --> Settings
   --> Currencies section`).
```

   .. image:: currencies/automatic-currency-rates.png
      :align: center
      :alt: How the main currency feature appears on settings page in Odoo Accounting.

>    To do that, click the checkbox beside the :guilabel:`Automatic Currency Rates` feature, choose
>    a designated bank to get the currency rates from in the :guilabel:`Service` field drop-down,
>    select an :guilabel:`Interval` of time for the updates to take place, and then determine when the
>    date of the :guilabel:`Next Run` should be.

Reviewer 2: Early line break
```suggestion
   To do that, click the checkbox beside the :guilabel:`Automatic Currency Rates` feature, choose a
   designated bank to get the currency rates from in the :guilabel:`Service` field drop-down, select
   an :guilabel:`Interval` of time for the updates to take place, and then determine when the date
   of the :guilabel:`Next Run` should be.
```

   The ability to instantly update the currency rates is also available, by clicking the

>    :guilabel:`circular arrows` icon, located to the right of the :guilabel:`Next Run` field.

Reviewer 2: Can use icon here if you want :)
```suggestion
   :guilabel:`🔁 (circular arrows)` icon, located to the right of the :guilabel:`Next Run` field.
```

   When all configurations are complete, click :guilabel:`Save` to save all changes.

.. note::

>    All payment methods **must** be in the same currency as the Sales Journal, or the company

Reviewer 2: No need for caps on _sales journal_
```suggestion
   All payment methods **must** be in the same currency as the sales journal, or the company
```

   currency, if the company currency is not set. If not, a :guilabel:`Validation Error` message
   appears.

View, edit, and add currencies
==============================

To view, edit, and add currencies to the database, and make them available on pricelists and on the
:guilabel:`Main Currency` drop-down, click the :guilabel:`Currencies` link, beneath the
:guilabel:`Currency` field (on the *Accounting* app's :guilabel:`Settings` page).

When the :guilabel:`Currencies` link is clicked, a separate :guilabel:`Currencies` page is revealed.

.. image:: currencies/main-currencies-page.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How the main currencies page appears in Odoo Accounting.

On this page, Odoo provides a master list of 167 global currencies. Each row shows the corresponding
:guilabel:`Currency`, :guilabel:`Symbol`, :guilabel:`Name`, date of the :guilabel:`Last Update`, and
:guilabel:`Current Rate` (compared to the default currency of the country in which the company is
based in).

To the far right, there are two columns, which can be toggled on or off:

- :guilabel:`Use on eBay`: meaning this currency can be used with the connected eBay account (if
  applicable).

> - :guilabel:`Active`: meaning this currency is `activated`, which means it can be added to a
>   pricelist, or used as the :guilabel:`Main Currency` of the company, if desired (via
>   :menuselection:`Accounting app --> Configuration --> Settings --> Currencies section`).

Reviewer 2: _Activated_ is not user input, so no formatting needed, _main currency_ is not text present on this screen
```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Active`: meaning this currency is activated, which means it can be added to a
  pricelist, or used as the main currency of the company, if desired (via :menuselection:`Accounting
  app --> Configuration --> Settings --> Currencies section`).
```

.. note::
   By default, all the currency options that are :guilabel:`Active` are at the top of the list.

.. tip::
   It's recommended that *at least* one pricelist is created per :guilabel:`Active` currency. See

>    :doc:`/applications/sales/sales/products_prices/prices/pricing` to learn more about pricelist

Reviewer 2: Update all doc paths to be relative 🙂
```suggestion
   :doc:`./pricing` to learn more about pricelist
```

>    also: `/applications/sales/sales/products_prices/prices/pricing.html` to learn more about
>    pricelist configuration.

Reviewer 2: This doc reference is incorrect, and it seems odd to say "See also:" instead of using a .. seealso:: admonition
```suggestion
   :doc:`/applications/sales/sales/products_prices/prices/pricing` to learn more about pricelist
   configuration.
```

To toggle these options on/off, click the toggle switch in the row for the corresponding column.

> When `on` the color of the switch is green. When `off`, the color of the switch is gray.

Reviewer 2: I dont think literal formatting applies here, the user isnt inputting "on" or "off" but rather toggling the state of the icon similar to _folding_ a kanban column
```suggestion
When *on* the color of the switch is green. When *off*, the color of the switch is gray.
```

Currency detail form
--------------------

To edit any currency on the :guilabel:`Currencies` page, click the desired currency to reveal the
detail form for that specific currency, and proceed to make any necessary changes.

.. image:: currencies/currency-detail-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How a currency detail form looks in Odoo Accounting.

> On the currency detail form, the relevant Currency Code appears in the :guilabel:`Currency` field.

Reviewer 2: No caps
```suggestion
On the currency detail form, the relevant currency code appears in the :guilabel:`Currency` field.
```

Beneath that, the name for the currency is in the :guilabel:`Name` field.

> Then, toggle the currency's availabilty with the :guilabel:`Active` toggle: `on` is indicated with
> a green switch, and `off` is indicated with a gray switch.

Reviewer 2: Typo and formatting
```suggestion
Then, toggle the currency's availability with the :guilabel:`Active` toggle: *on* is indicated with
a green switch, and *off* is indicated with a gray switch.
```

On the right of the currency detail form, the appropriate :guilabel:`Currency Unit` (e.g. `Dollars`)
and :guilabel:`Currency Subunit` (e.g. `Cents`) can be found.

If the currency is meant to be used for eBay purposes, toggle the :guilabel:`Use on eBay` to the

> desired activation: `on` is indicated with a green switch, and `off` is indicated with a gray
> switch.

Reviewer 2: Formatting
```suggestion
desired activation: *on* is indicated with a green switch, and *off* is indicated with a gray
switch.
```

Next, under the :guilabel:`Rates` tab, the various conversion rates can be viewed, added, or
deleted. Each row shows the :guilabel:`Date` of that specific rate, the :guilabel:`Company` to which
it is connected, followed by the :guilabel:`Unit per...` and :guilabel:`...per Unit`.

.. note::

>       The `...` in each of the last two columns represents the main currency set for the company.
>       For example, if the main currency is set to `USD`, the columns will be titled :guilabel:`Unit
>       per USD` and :guilabel:`USD per Unit`.

Reviewer 2: Formatting– also the text was indented too far :)
```suggestion
   The *...* in each of the last two columns represents the main currency set for the company. For
   example, if the main currency is set to `USD`, the columns will be titled :guilabel:`Unit per
   USD` and :guilabel:`USD per Unit`.
```

To add a new rate, click :guilabel:`Add a line` in the :guilabel:`Rates` tab, and proceed to fill in
the necessary information in the aforementioned columns.

Main currency detail form
-------------------------

> If the selected currency is the :guilabel:`Main Currency` of the company, a blue banner appears at
> the top of the currency detail form, with the message: `This is your company's currency.`

Reviewer 2: Guilabel use
```suggestion
If the selected currency is the main currency of the company, a blue banner appears at the top of
the currency detail form, with the message: :guilabel:`This is your company's currency.`.
```

.. image:: currencies/main-currency-detail-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How a main currency detail form looks in Odoo Accounting.

All the fields are the same as a typical currency detail form, but there won't be a
:guilabel:`Rates` tab because all other currency rates are based off the main currency of the
company.

Create new currency
===================

If a desired currency isn't on the :guilabel:`Currencies` page, click the :guilabel:`New` button to
open a blank currency template form.

.. tip::
   The same :guilabel:`New` button is located in the upper-right corner of any currency detail form.

.. image:: currencies/blank-currency-detail-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How a blank currency detail form looks in Odoo Accounting.

> On the blank currency detail form, proceed to enter the desired Currency Code in the

Reviewer 2: No caps
```suggestion
On the blank currency detail form, proceed to enter the desired currency code in the
```

:guilabel:`Currency` field. Beneath that, enter the name for the currency in the :guilabel:`Name`
field.

> Then, toggle the currency's availabilty with the :guilabel:`Active` toggle - `on` is indicated with
> a green switch, and `off` is indicated with a gray switch.

Reviewer 2: typo and formatting
```suggestion
Then, toggle the currency's availability with the :guilabel:`Active` toggle - *on* is indicated with
a green switch, and *off* is indicated with a gray switch.
```

On the right of the currency detail form, enter the appropriate :guilabel:`Currency Unit` (e.g.
`Dollars`) and the appropriate :guilabel:`Currency Subunit` (e.g. `Cents`).

If the currency is meant to be used for eBay purposes, toggle the :guilabel:`Use on eBay` to the

> desired activation: `on` is indicated with a green switch, and `off` is indicated with a gray

Reviewer 2: Formatting
```suggestion
desired activation: *on* is indicated with a green switch, and *off* is indicated with a gray
```

switch.

Next, under the :guilabel:`Rates` tab, add a new rate by clicking :guilabel:`Add a line`. Then,
proceed to confirm and adjust the :guilabel:`Date`, :guilabel:`Company`, :guilabel:`Unit per...`,
and :guilabel:`...per Unit` fields to ensure all the auto-populated information is accurate.

.. note::

>       The `...` in each of the last two columns represents the main currency set for the company.
>       For example, if the main currency is set to `USD`, the columns will be titled :guilabel:`Unit
>       per USD` and :guilabel:`USD per Unit`.

Reviewer 2: Formatting and text is indented too far
```suggestion
   The *...* in each of the last two columns represents the main currency set for the company. For
   example, if the main currency is set to `USD`, the columns will be titled :guilabel:`Unit per
   USD` and :guilabel:`USD per Unit`.
```

Currency-specific pricelists
============================

> It is recommended that *at least* one pricelist is created per :guilabel:`Active` currency in the
> database. To create (or assign) a pricelist to a specific currency, start by navigating to
> :menuselection:`Sales app --> Products --> Pricelists`.

Reviewer 2: No need for guilabel here
```suggestion
It is recommended that *at least* one pricelist is created per active currency in the database. To
create (or assign) a pricelist to a specific currency, start by navigating to :menuselection:`Sales
app --> Products --> Pricelists`.
```

From the :guilabel:`Pricelists` page, either select an existing pricelist to edit, or click
:guilabel:`New` to create a new pricelist.

On the pricelist detail form, on either a new or existing pricelist, adjust the :guilabel:`Currency`
field as desired.

.. seealso::

>    `/applications/sales/sales/products_prices/prices/pricing.html` to learn more about
>    pricelist configuration.

Reviewer 2: Doc tag formatting, need to include `:doc:` and do not include `.html`
```suggestion
   :doc:`/applications/sales/sales/products_prices/prices/pricing` to learn more about pricelist
   configuration.
```

Auto-conversion from public price
=================================

It should be noted that the public price seen on products is directly related to the company's set

> :guilabel:`Main Currency`, which is configured by navigating to :menuselection:`Accounting app -->
> Configuration --> Settings --> Currencies section --> Main Currency --> Currency drop-down menu`.

Reviewer 2: No need for gui here
```suggestion
main currency, which is configured by navigating to :menuselection:`Accounting app --> Configuration
--> Settings --> Currencies section --> Main Currency --> Currency drop-down menu`.
```

However, the sales price automatically updates if the pricelist is changed to one that has a

> different currency than the company's :guilabel:`Main Currency`. The change in price is directly
> related to the updated conversion rate for that currency.

Reviewer 2: Same here, no gui
```suggestion
different currency than the company's main currency. The change in price is directly related to the
updated conversion rate for that currency.
```

particular product.

.. image:: currencies/price-rules-currencies.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How to set product prices based on foreign currency pricelists in Odoo Sales.

Click :guilabel:`New`, and select the desired pricelist from the drop-down in the
:guilabel:`Pricelist` column.

The :guilabel:`Applied On` field is auto-populated with the product, so proceed to enter in the
desired figures in the :guilabel:`Min. Quantity` and :guilabel:`Price` fields.

.. note::
   The figure in the :guilabel:`Min. Qunatity` field means that the :guilabel:`Price` being set will
   **only** trigger if at least that amount of product is purchased.

If necessary, configure a :guilabel:`Start Date` and :guilabel:`End Date` for the set prices, as
well. Leaving those columns blank ensures that the set price will remain valid.

Then, if working in a multi-company environment, designate to which company this price rule
should be applied in the :guilabel:`Company` field. Leaving that blank ensures the price rule will
be applied to all companies in the database.

Now, regardless of any changes/updates in conversion, whenever those designated pricelists are

> applied to a customer trying to purchase this specific product, these pre-determined set prices
> will always appear.

Reviewer 2: Early line break
```suggestion
applied to a customer trying to purchase this specific product, these pre-determined set prices will
always appear.
```
